# Briggs Engineering
 Briggs Engineering is a manufacturer of large metal automotive components. Employees at Briggs assemble components in a busy shop and ship products to customers nationwide.  Keeping employees safe and productive at Briggs is priority number one!      During a safety walk in the factory, HR and the EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) Manager observed several employees carrying out various tasks in their working conditions.  The team noted the following safety violations:   Bending at the waist and twisting while lifting product  Lifting loads over the designated weight limit (50 pounds)  Carrying large stacks of product, obstructing vision and resulting in off-center loads  Moving loads without a clear plan to lift and transport products safely and efficiently through the shop  Not consistently using lifting assistance (such as push carts, dollies, pallet jacks, or other devices)  ✅ The Challenge  In response to the safety walk, Briggs Engineering’s HR manager has requested mandatory training for all shop floor employees focused on safe lifting techniques. In tandem, HR has noted an increase in acute lower back injuries over the past nine months. These injuries reduce employees’ scope of work and productivity in the shop and often lead to chronic back problems.    Per OSHA, safe lifting requires four stages: 1) Preparation; 2) Lifting; 3) Carrying; and 4) Setting Down.     As the Training Specialist, my goal was to encourage the adoption of lifting ergonomics via a self-paced and interactive eLearning course. OSHA rules tend to get lost when posted on the shop floor. Therefore, making the OSHA guidelines engaging by using demonstrations and consequences will help reduce the frequency and severity of lower back injuries.  
